<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cqg_2zf_q4">
 <title>Swap rebalance</title>
 <shortdesc>Swap rebalance is an automatic process that optimizes the movement of data when you are
    adding and removing the same number of nodes within the same operation. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>

  <p>Swap rebalance optimizes the rebalance operation by moving data directly from the nodes
      being removed to the nodes being added. This is more efficient than standard rebalancing,
      which normally moves data across the entire cluster.</p>
  <p>Swap rebalance occurs automatically if the number of nodes being added and removed is
      identical. For example, two nodes are marked to be removed and another two nodes are added to
      the cluster. There is no configuration or selection mechanism to force a swap rebalance. If a
      swap rebalance cannot take place, then a normal rebalance operation is used instead. </p>
    <p>Swap rebalance operates as follows:</p>
  <ul>
   <li><p>Data is moved directly from a node being removed to the node being added on a one-to-one
     basis. This eliminates the need to restructure the entire vBucket map.</p></li>
   <li><p>Active vBuckets are moved, one at a time, from the source node to the destination
    node.</p></li>
   <li><p>Replica vBuckets are created on the new node and populated with existing data before being
     activated as the live replica bucket. This ensures that your replicas are still in place 
     in case there is a failure during the rebalance operation.</p></li>
  </ul>
  <p>For example, you have a cluster with 20 nodes and configure two nodes (X and Y) to be
   added, and two nodes to be removed (A and B):</p>
  <ul>
   <li><p>vBuckets from node A are moved to node X.</p></li>
   <li><p>vBuckets from node B are moved to node Y.</p></li>
  </ul>
   
   <section><title>Swap rebalance benefits</title>
  <p>The benefits of swap rebalance are:</p>
  <ul>
   <li><p>Reduced rebalance duration, since the move takes place directly from the nodes being
     removed to the nodes being added.</p></li>
   <li><p>Reduced load on the cluster during rebalance.</p></li>
   <li><p>Reduced network overhead during the rebalance.</p></li>
   <li><p>Reduced chance of a rebalance failure if a failover occurs during the rebalance operation,
     since replicas are created in tandem on the new hosts while the old host replicas still remain
     available.</p></li>
   <li><p>Because data on the nodes are swapped, rather than performing a full rebalance, the
     capacity of the cluster remains unchanged during the rebalance operation, helping to ensure
     performance and failover support.</p></li>
  </ul></section>
   
   <section><title>Rebalance failures</title>
<dl>
  <dlentry>
    <dt>Rebalance process failure</dt>
    <dd>If rebalance fails, or has been deliberately stopped, the active and
      replica vBuckets that have been transitioned will be part of the active vBucket map. Any
      transfers still in progress will be canceled. Restarting the rebalance operation will continue
      the rebalance from where it left off.</dd>
  </dlentry>
</dl>
     <dl>
       <dlentry>
         <dt>Node failure</dt>
         <dd>When a node failed, removing it and adding a replacement
           node (or adding the node back) will be treated as swap rebalance.</dd>
       </dlentry>
     </dl>

  <note type="important">If a node fails over during a swap rebalance, either clean up and re-add
        the failed node, or add a new node and perform the rebalance as normal. </note>

   </section>

 </conbody>
</concept>
