<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic3716">
  <title>Common administration tasks</title><shortdesc>Couchbase Server is capable to perform self-managing tasks such as general running and
    configuration.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>The management
      infrastructure and components of the Couchbase Server system are able to adapt to the
      different events within the cluster. There are only a few different configuration variables,
      and the majority of these configuration variables do not need to be modified or altered in most
      installations.</p>
    <p>However, there are a number of different tasks that are performed over the lifetime of the
      cluster environment including:</p>
    <ul>
      <li>Expanding your cluster when you need to expand the RAM or disk I/O capabilities.</li>
      <li>Failing over and altering the size of your cluster as your application demands change.</li>
      <li>Monitoring and reacting to the various statistics reported by the server to ensure that
        your cluster is operating at the highest performance level.</li>
      <li>Backing up the cluster.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>These tasks require additional activities such as:</p>
    <section><title>Increasing or reducing your cluster size</title>
    <p>When your cluster requires additional RAM, disk I/O, or network capacity, you will need to
      expand its size. If the increased load is only a temporary event, then you may
      later want to reduce the size of your cluster.</p>
    <p>You can add or remove multiple nodes from your cluster at the same time. Once the new node
      arrangement has been configured, the process of re-distributing the data and bringing the nodes
      into the cluster is called <term>rebalancing</term>. The rebalancing process moves the
      data around the cluster to match the new structure, and can be performed live while the
      cluster is still servicing application data requests.</p>
    </section>
    

    <section><title>Warming up a server</title>
    
    <p>In some cases you might want to explicitly shut down a server
      and then restart it. Typically, the server has been running for a while and contains data stored on
      disk when you restart it. In this case, the server needs to undergo a warmup process before it
      can again serve data requests. </p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Handling a failover situation</title>
    <p>A failover situation occurs when one of the nodes within your cluster fails, usually due to a
      significant hardware or network problem. Couchbase Server is designed to cope with this
      situation through the use of replicas, which provide copies of the data around the cluster
      that can be activated when a node fails.</p>
    <p>Couchbase Server provides two mechanisms for handling failovers. <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Automated failover</dt>
            <dd>It enables the cluster to operate autonomously and react to failovers without human
              intervention.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl><dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Monitored failover</dt>
            <dd>It enables you to perform a controlled failure by manually failing over a node.
              There are additional considerations for each failover type, and you should read the
              notes to ensure that you know the best solution for your specific situation.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Managing database and view fragmentation</title>
    <p>The database and view index files created by Couchbase Server can become fragmented. This can
      cause performance problems and an increase in space used on disk by the files 
      compared to the size of the information they hold. Compaction reduces this fragmentation to
      reclaim the disk space.</p>
    </section>

    <section><title>Backing up and restoring your cluster data</title>
    <p>Couchbase Server automatically distributes your data across the nodes within the cluster, and
      supports replicas of that data. It is a good practice to have a backup of your bucket
      data in the event of a more significant failure.</p>
    </section>
  </body>
  
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../CLI/cli-overview.dita"></link>
      <link href="../REST/overview-rest-api.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
