<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2096">
 <title>Statistics and monitoring</title>
 <shortdesc>A complete set of statistical and monitoring information is provided through the
  Couchbase Web Console, CLI, and REST API.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <p>In order to understand what your cluster is doing and how it is performing, the Couchbase
   Server incorporates a complete set of statistical and monitoring information. The statistics are
   provided through all of the administration interfaces. Within the Couchbase Web Console, a
   complete suite of statistics is provided including the built-in real-time graphing and
   performance data.</p>
  <p>The statistics information is divided into a number of groups, allowing you to identify
   different states and performance information within the cluster.</p>
  
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>By node</dt>
    <dd>Node statistics show CPU, RAM and I/O numbers on each of the servers and across your cluster as
     a whole. This information can be used to help identify performance and loading issues on a single
     server.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>By vBucket</dt>
    <dd>The vBucket statistics shows the usage and performance numbers for the vBuckets and are
     useful to determine whether you need to reconfigure your buckets or add servers to improve
     performance.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>By view</dt>
    <dd>View statistics display information about individual views in your system, including the CPU
     usage and disk space, so that you can monitor the effects and loading of a view on the
     Couchbase nodes. This information can indicate that your views need modification or
     optimization, or that you need to consider defining views across multiple design
     documents.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
 <dl>
  <dlentry>
   <dt>By disk queues</dt>
   <dd>These statistics monitor the queues used to read and write information to disk and between
     replicas. This information can be helpful in determine whether you should expand your cluster
     to reduce disk load.</dd>
  </dlentry>
 </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>By TAP queues</dt>
    <dd>The TAP interface is used to monitor changes and updates to the database. TAP is used
     internally by Couchbase Server to provide replication between the nodes, but it can be also
     used by clients for change notifications.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl> 
 <p>In almost all cases, the obtained statistic results can be viewed both on a cluster basis, to
   monitor the overall RAM or disk usage for a given bucket, or an individual server basis to
   identify issues within a single machine.</p>
  
 </body>
</topic>
