<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbepctl-accesslog">
  <title>Changing access log settings</title>
  <shortdesc>Access log settings determine when the access scanner process initially runs and how
    often.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
    <p>Couchbase Server has an optimized disk warmup. Couchbase Server pre-fetches a list of
        most-frequently accessed keys and fetches these documents first. The server runs a periodic
        scanner process which determines which keys are most frequently used. The <codeph>cbepctl
          flush_param</codeph> command is used to change the initial time and the interval for the
        process. For example, the initial time and interval might be changed to accommodate a peak
        time when an application needs these keys to be quickly available.</p>

    <p>By default, the scanner process runs once every 24 hours with a default initial start time of
        2:00 AM UTC. This means after installing a new Couchbase Server instance or restarting the
        server, the scanner runs every 24 hour time period at 2:00 AM GMT and then 2:00 PM GMT by
        default. </p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Basic syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>
cbepctl [hostname]:11210 -b [bucket-name] -p [bucket-password] set flush_param alog_sleep_time [value]
cbepctl [hostname]:11210 -b [bucket-name] -p [bucket-password] set flush_param alog_task_time [value]
</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Example</title>
      <p>The following example changes the time interval when the access scanner process runs to
        every 20 minutes.</p>
    <codeblock>cbepctl 10.5.2.117:11210 -b foo-bucket -p foo-password set flush_param alog_sleep_time 20
</codeblock>
    <p>The following example changes the initial time that the access scanner process runs from the 2:00 AM
      UTC default to 11:00 PM UTC.</p>
    <codeblock>cbepctl 10.5.2.117:11210 foo-bucket -p foo-password set flush_param alog_task_time 23
</codeblock>

    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
      <p>The following example response shows the time interval changed to 20 minutes.</p>
      <codeblock>
setting param: alog_sleep_time 20
set alog_sleep_time to 20
      </codeblock>
      
      
      <p>The following example response shows the initial access scanner run time changed to 11:00
        PM UTC.</p>
      <codeblock>
setting param: alog_task_time 23
set alog_task_time to 23
      </codeblock>
    
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
