<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbepctl-diskwritequeue">
	<title>Changing disk write queue quotas</title>
	<shortdesc>The quota in disk write queues impact the rate of data sent from source nodes to
		destination nodes. </shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Description</title>
		<p>One of the specific uses of the <codeph>cbepctl set tap_param</codeph> command option is to the
				change the default maximum items for a disk write queue. This impacts replication of
				data that occurs between source and destination nodes within a cluster. Both data
				that a node receives from client applications and replicated items that it receives
				are placed on a disk write queue. If there are too many items waiting in the disk
				write queue at any given destination, Couchbase Server reduces the rate of data that
				is sent to a destination. This is process is also known as backoff.</p>
			
		<p>By default, when a disk write queue contains one million items, a Couchbase node 
			reduces the rate it sends out data to be replicated. 
			This setting can be changed to be
			the greater of 10% of the items at a destination node or a specific number.</p>
			
			<p>The <codeph>tap_param</codeph> parameters are:</p>
			<table>
				<title>tap_param parameters</title>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Parameter</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>tap_keepalive</entry>
							<entry>Seconds to hold a named tap connection.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>tap_throttle_queue_cap</entry>
							<entry>Max disk write queue size when tap streams are put into a temporary,
								5-second pause. Infinite means there is no cap.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>tap_throttle_cap_pcnt</entry>
							<entry>Maximum items in disk write queue as percentage of all items on a
								node. At this point, tap streams are put into a temporary, 5-second
								pause.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>tap_throttle_threshold</entry>
							<entry>Percentage of memory in use when tap streams are put into a
								temporary, 5-second pause. </entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>
			
			<section><title>Syntax</title>
				<p>Basic syntax:</p>
				<codeblock>
cbepctl [localhost]:11210 -b [bucket-name] -p [bucket-password] set tap_param [parameter] [value]
cbepctl [localhost]:11210 -b [bucket-name] -p [bucket-password] set tap_param tap_throttle_queue_cap [value]
cbepctl [localhost]:11210 -b [bucket-name] -p [bucket-password] set tap_param tap_throttle_cap_pcnt [value]
				</codeblock>
			</section>
			
			<section><title>Example</title>
				
				<p>The following example changes the setting (for the default bucket) to specify that a replica
				node send a request to backoff when it has two million items.</p>
				<codeblock>cbepctl 10.5.2.117:11210 set tap_param tap_throttle_queue_cap 2000000</codeblock>
				
				<p>The following example changes (for the default bucket) the default percentage used to manage
				the replication stream. If the items in a disk write queue reach the greater of this
				percentage or a specified number of items, replication requests slow down.</p>
				<p>The threshold is set to 15% of all items at a replica node. When a disk
					write queue on a replica node reaches this point, it requests replication backoff.</p>
				<codeblock>cbepctl 10.5.2.117:11210 set tap_param tap_throttle_cap_pcnt 15</codeblock>
			
			</section>
		
		<section><title>Response</title>
			<p>The following example responses show a two million setting and a 15% threshold:</p>
			<codeblock>
setting param: tap_throttle_queue_cap 2000000
set tap_throttle_queue_cap to 2000000

setting param: tap_throttle_cap_pcnt 15
set tap_throttle_cap_pcnt to 15
			</codeblock>

		</section>
		
	</refbody>
	<related-links>
		<linklist>
			<link href="../../Concepts/concept-replication.dita"/>
		</linklist>
	</related-links>
</reference>
