<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_ldx_gqs_g4">
  <title>Installing on RHEL</title><shortdesc>Install Couchbase Server on RHEL using the <cmdname>rpm</cmdname> command-line tool with the downloaded RPM
    package.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <note type="important">RHEL6 and other newer Linux distributions running on physical hardware are known to have transparent 
     <term> huge pages</term> feature enabled. While this can provide a measurable performance boost, under some conditions that the Couchbase Server 
      is known to trigger, this option may cause severe delays in page allocations. Therefore, it is strongly recommended to 
      disable the transparent huge pages feature when installing the Couchbase Server. </note>
    <p> Log in as root (superuser) to complete the installation:</p>
      <codeblock>
root-&gt; rpm --install couchbase-server-<varname>version</varname>.rpm 
     </codeblock>
      <p>where <varname>version</varname> is the version number of the downloaded package.</p>
      <p>After the <cmdname>rpm</cmdname> command completes, the Couchbase Server starts automatically. It 
        is configured to automatically start during boot under the 2, 3, 4, and 5 runlevels. Refer to
        the Red Hat RPM documentation for more information about installing packages using RPM.</p>
      <p>After installation is completed, the installation process displays a message similar to the following:</p>
      <codeblock>
Minimum RAM required : 4 GB 
    System RAM configured : 8174464 KB
    Minimum number of processors required :  4 cores 
    Number of processors on the system : 4 cores
    
    
Starting couchbase-server[ OK ]

You have successfully installed Couchbase Server. 
    Browse to http://host_name:8091/ to configure your server. 
   Refer to http://couchbase.com for additional resources.

   Update your firewall configuration 
    to allow connections to the following ports: 
   
    11211, 11210, 11209, 4369, 8091, 8092 and from 21100 to 21299.


By using this software you agree to the End User License Agreement. 
See /opt/couchbase/LICENSE.txt.
     </codeblock>
    
    
    <p>After the installation is completed, use the Red Hat <cmdname>chkconfig</cmdname> command to
      manage the Couchbase Server service, including checking the current status and creating the
      links to turn on and off the automatic start-up. To perform the initial Couchbase Server
      setup, open a web browser and access the Couchbase Web Console.</p>
    
  </body>
</topic>
