<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_bbv_ywf_q4">
 <title>Rebalance behind-the-scenes</title>
 <shortdesc>The rebalance process is managed through a specific process called
      <term>orchestrator</term>.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  
  <p>The orchestrator examines the current vBucket map
   and then combines that information with the node additions and removals in order to create a new
   vBucket map.</p>
  <p>The orchestrator starts the process of moving the individual vBuckets from the current vBucket
      map to the new vBucket structure. It only starts the process while the nodes themselves are
      responsible for actually performing the movement of data between the nodes. The aim is to make
      the newly calculated vBucket map match the current situation.</p>
  <p>Each vBucket is moved independently, and a number of vBuckets can be migrated
     simultaneously in parallel between the different nodes in the cluster. On each destination node,
     a process called <term>ebucketmigrator</term> is started. It uses the TAP system to
     request that all the data be transferred for a single vBucket, and that the new vBucket data
     becomes the active vBucket once the migration has been completed.</p>
  <p>While the vBucket
      migration process is taking place, clients are still sending data to the existing vBucket. This
      information is migrated along with the original data that existed before the migration was
      requested. Once the migration of all the data has completed, the original vBucket is marked
      as disabled, and the new vBucket is enabled. This updates the vBucket map and is communicated
      back to the connected clients that will now use the new location.</p>
  
  
  
  <section><title>Changing vBucket moves with REST</title>
   <p>The number of vBucket moves that occur during the rebalance
    operation can be modified. The default is one (1) and indicates that only one vBucket is moved at a time
    during the rebalance operation.</p>
  <p>To change the number of vBucket moves, execute a curl <cmdname>POST</cmdname>
         command using the following syntax with the <codeph>/internalSettings</codeph> endpoint and
         the option <codeph>rebalanceMovesPerNode</codeph>.</p>

  <codeblock>
curl -X POST -u admin:password
 -d rebalanceMovesPerNode=1
 http://HOST:PORT/internalSettings
</codeblock>
  
  <p>For example:</p>
   <codeblock>
curl -X POST -u Administrator:password
 -d rebalanceMovesPerNode=14
 http://soursop-s11201.sc.couchbase.com:8091/internalSettings
</codeblock>
  </section>
  
  
 </conbody>
</concept>
