<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_byh_lbg_q4">
  <title>Removing nodes</title>
  <shortdesc>Removing a node marks the node for removal from the cluster.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>Removing a node does not stop the node from servicing requests. Instead, it only marks the
      node as ready for removal from the cluster. You must perform a rebalance operation to complete
      the removal process. Once a node is removed, it is no longer part of the cluster and can be
      switched off, updated, or upgraded.</p>
    
   <note type="important">Before you remove a node from the cluster, ensure that you have the capacity within the remaining nodes to handle the workload. For the best results, 
        use swap rebalance. </note>
    
    <note type="warning">Occasionally, during an online upgrade, VM-based configurations can swap out old 
      VM nodes in place of a totally new set.  If all old nodes are removed from the cluster, 
      clients may no longer know about any nodes and fail to connect. To prevent such problems, 
      make sure that you provide one of the following solutions: <ul>
          <li>At least one of the original nodes is maintained in the cluster, and this node is
            listed in the client's server configuration.</li>
          <li>The client's server configuration is appropriately updated to include at least one
            new node before the last old node is removed.</li>
        </ul></note>
    
    <p>Nodes can be removed either via the Couchbase Web Console or CLI.</p>
      
<section><title>Using the Couchbase Web Console</title>
          <p>You can remove a node from the cluster from within the <wintitle>Manage Server Nodes</wintitle> 
            section of the Couchbase Web Console.</p>
  <ol>
    <li>Click on the <uicontrol>Remove Server</uicontrol> button 
      next to the node you want to remove. A warning will appear to confirm that you want to remove the node.</li>
    <li>Click <uicontrol>Remove</uicontrol> to mark the node for removal.</li>
  </ol>
            </section>
                
<section><title>Using CLI</title>
              <p>You cannot mark a node for removal from the command-line without simultaneously initiating a
                rebalance operation. The <cmdname>rebalance</cmdname> command accepts one or more
                <codeph>--server-add</codeph> or <codeph>--server-remove</codeph> options. This adds or
                removes the server from the cluster, and immediately initiates a rebalance operation.</p>
                  
                  <p>T o remove a node during a rebalance operation:</p>
                  
                  <codeblock>
&gt; couchbase-cli rebalance --cluster=127.0.0.1:8091 \
          -u Administrator -p Password \
          --server-remove=192.168.0.73
</codeblock>
                  
                </section>

  </body>
</topic>
