<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_jm3_1qp_dq">
  <title>Compaction process</title><shortdesc>Couchbase Server compacts views and data files.</shortdesc>
  <body>
   <p>For database compaction, Couchbase Server creates a new file to which the active (non-stale)
      information is written. Meanwhile, the existing database files stay in place and continue to
      be used for storing information and updating the index data. This process ensures that the
      database continues to be available while compaction takes place. Once compaction is completed,
      the old database is disabled and saved. After that, any incoming updates are posted in the
      newly created database files and the old database is deleted from the system.</p>
    <p>View compaction occurs in the same way. Couchbase Server creates a new index file for each
      active design document. Then it takes this new index file and writes active index information
      into it. Old index files are handled in the same way as the old data files during compaction.
      Once compaction is completed, old index files are deleted from the system.</p>
    
  <section><title>How to use compaction</title>
    
    <p>Compaction takes place as a background process while Couchbase Server is running.
            You do not need to shut down or pause the database operation and clients can continue to access
            and submit requests while the database is running. While compaction takes place in the
            background, be sure to:</p>
    
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Perform compaction on every server.</dt>
        <dd>Compaction operates only on a single server in the Couchbase Server cluster. You need to
            perform compaction on each node in your cluster, and on each database in your
            cluster.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Perform compaction during off-peak hours.</dt>
        <dd>The compaction process is both disk and CPU intensive. In heavy write-based databases
            where compaction is required, it must be scheduled during off-peak hours (use
            auto-compact to schedule specific times). <p>If compaction isn’t scheduled during
              off-peak hours, it can cause problems. Since the compaction process can take long time
              to complete on large and busy databases, it is possible that it can fail to complete
              properly while the database is still active. In extreme cases, this can lead to the
              compaction process never catching up with the database modifications, and eventually
              using up all the disk space. Schedule compaction during off-peak hours to prevent
              this!</p></dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Perform compaction with adequate disk space.</dt>
        <dd>Since compaction occurs by creating new files and
          updating the information, you might need as much as twice the disk space of your current database
          and index files. However, it is important to keep in mind that the exact amount of the disk space required
            depends on the level of fragmentation, the amount of dead data, and the activity of the database,
            as changes during compaction will also need to be written to the updated data
            files. Before compaction takes place, the disk space is checked. If the amount of
              available disk space is less than twice the current database size, the compaction process does
              not take place and a warning is issued in the log.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    
    
  </section>
    <section><title>Compaction behavior</title>
      
   <p>The activities you can set up for auto-compaction are:</p>
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Stop/Restart:</dt>
          <dd>The compaction process can be stopped and restarted. However, you should be aware that
            in case the compaction process is stopped and updates to the database completed, when
            the compaction process is restarted the updated database may not be a clean compacted
            version. This happens because any changes to the portion of the database file that were
            processed before the compaction was canceled and restarted have already been
            processed.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Auto-compaction:</dt>
          <dd>Auto-compaction automatically triggers the compaction process on
            your database. You can schedule specific hours when compaction can take place.</dd>
        </dlentry>
      </dl>
      <dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Compaction activity log:</dt>
          <dd>Compaction activity is reported in the Couchbase Server log. You will see entries
            similar to following showing the compaction operation and duration: <ul>
              <li>Autocompaction: Indicates compaction cannot be performed because of inadequate
                disk space.</li>
              <li>Manually triggered compaction</li>
              <li>Compaction completed successfully</li>
              <li>Compaction failed</li>
              <li>Purge deletes compaction</li>
              <li>Compaction started/completed</li>
              <li>Compaction failed</li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry></dl>
                        
      </section>  
  </body> 
  

</topic>
