<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic10294">
 <title>Handling server warmup</title>
 
 <shortdesc>Couchbase server warmup behavior can be modified by changing the access scanner and warmup
  threshold settings via the <codeph>cbepctl</codeph> tool.</shortdesc>
 
 <body>

 <p> In order to adjust warmup behavior, it is important to understand the access log
  and scanning process in Couchbase Server. </p>
  <p>The server uses the access log to determine which
  documents are most frequently used, and therefore which documents to load first. 
  It has a process that periodically scans every key in RAM and compiles them into a log 
   named <codeph>access.log</codeph>. It also maintains a backup of this access log, named
    <codeph>access.old</codeph>.</p> 
   <p>The server can use this backup file during warmup if the most
   recent access log has been corrupted during warmup or node failure. By default, this process runs
   initially at 2:00 GMT and then again each 24 hour time periods. You can configure
   this process to run at a different initial time and at a different fixed interval.</p>
  
  <p>If a client tries to contact Couchbase Server during warmup, the server produces a
    <codeph>ENGINE_TMPFAIL (0x0d)</codeph> error code. This error indicates that data access is
   still not available because warmup has not yet finished. </p>
   
   <note type="note">If you are creating your
   own Couchbase SDK, you need to handle this error in your library. This may mean that the
   client waits and retries, performs a backoff of requests, or produces an error
   and does not retry the request. </note>
   
   <note type="note">If you are building an application with a Couchbase
   SDK, be aware that delivery and handling of this error depends on the individual SDKs.
   </note>
   
<p>These are the actions to take during Couchbase Server warmup:</p>
  
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Getting warmup information</dt>
    <dd>The <codeph>cbstats</codeph> tool is used to
     get information about server warmup, including the warmup status and whether warmup is enabled.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
<dl>
 <dlentry>
  <dt>Changing the warmup threshold</dt>
  <dd>Modify warmup behavior by changing the
   <codeph>cbepctl ep_warmup_min_items_threshold</codeph> parameter. This indicates the percentage
   of items loaded in RAM that must be reached for Couchbase Server to begin serving data. The
   lower this number, the sooner your server can begin serving data. Be aware, however that if you
   set this value to be too low, once requests come in for items, the item may not be in memory and
   Couchbase Server will experience cache-miss errors.</dd>
 </dlentry>
</dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Changing access scanner settings</dt>
    <dd>The server runs a periodic scanner process which determines which keys are most frequently-used, and therefore, which documents
     should be loaded first during server warmup. The settings, <codeph>cbepctl flush_param</codeph>
     <codeph>alog_sleep_ time</codeph> and <codeph>alog_task_ time</codeph>parameters are used to
     change the initial time and the interval for the process.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>


 </body>
 
 <related-links>
  <linklist>
   <link href="../CLI/cbepctl-intro.dita"></link>
   <link href="../CLI/CBepctl/cbepctl-accesslog.dita"></link>
   <link href="../CLI/cbstats-intro.dita"></link>
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</topic>
