<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2417">
  <title>XDCR in cloud deployments</title><shortdesc>XDCR (Cross Datacenter Replication) is used to replicate data between deployed clusters
    in the cloud.</shortdesc>
  <body>
    <p>To replicate between two or more clusters that are deployed in the cloud, keep in m ind these
      configuration requirements:</p>
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Use a public DNS names and public IP addresses</dt>
        <dd>You can use a public DNS names and public IP addresses for nodes in your cluster. Cloud
          services support the use of a public IP address to allow communication to the nodes within
          the cluster. Within the cloud deployment environment, the public IP address will resolve
          internally within the cluster, but allow external communication. </dd>
        <dd>In Amazon EC2, for example, ensure that you have enabled the public interface in your
          instance configuration, that the security parameters allow communication to the required
          ports, and that public DNS record exposed by Amazon is used as the reference name.</dd>
        <dd>Configure the cluster with a fixed IP address and the public DNS name according to
          the recommendations for using Couchbase in the cloud.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    
    <dl>
      <dlentry>
        <dt>Use a DNS service</dt>
        <dd>You can use a public DNS names and public IP addresses for nodes in your clusters. Use a
          DNS service to identify or register a <codeph>CNAME</codeph> that points to the public DNS
          address of each node within the cluster. This will allow you to configure XDCR to use the
          <codeph>CNAME</codeph> to a node in the cluster. The <codeph>CNAME</codeph> will be
          constant, even though the underlying public DNS address may change within the cloud
          service.</dd>
        <dd>The <codeph>CNAME</codeph> record entry can then be used as the destination IP address
          when configuring replication between the clusters using XDCR. If a transient failure
          causes the public DNS address for a given cluster node to change, update the
          <codeph>CNAME</codeph> to point to the updated public DNS address provided by the cloud
          service.</dd>
        <dd>By updating the <codeph>CNAME</codeph> records, replication should be able to persist
          over a public, internet- based connection, even though the individual IP of different
          nodes within each cluster configured in XDCR.</dd>
      </dlentry>
    </dl>
    
    
    <p>For additional security, you should configure your security groups to allow traffic only on
      the required ports between the IP addresses for each cluster. To configure security groups,
      you must specify the inbound port and IP address range. You must also ensure that the security
      includes the right port and IP addresses for the remainder of your cluster to allow
      communication between the nodes within the cluster.</p>
    
  </body>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="../Install/setup-overview.dita"></link>
      <link href="../Install/install-networkPorts.dita"></link>
      <link href="../Concepts/bp-cloudDeployment.dita"></link>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</topic>
