<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2157">
	<title>Monitoring startup (warmup)</title>
	<body>
		<p>If a Couchbase Server node is starting up for the first time, it creates whatever DB
			files necessary and begin serving data immediately. However, if there is already data on
			disk (likely because the node rebooted or the service restarted) the node needs to read
			all of this data off of disk before it can begin serving data. This is called “warmup”.
			Depending on the size of data, this can take some time. </p>
		<p>When starting up a node, there are a few statistics to monitor. Use the
				<codeph>cbstats</codeph> command to watch the warmup stats:</p>
		<codeblock>cbstats localhost:11210 warmup</codeblock>
		<p>The following statistics are of particular interest when monitoring the warmup.</p>
		<dl>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>ep_warmup_thread</dt>
				<dd>This is the overall indication of whether or not warmup is still running. Look for values: running and complete.</dd>
			</dlentry>
			<dlentry>
				<dt>ep_warmup_state</dt>
				<dd>This describes which phase of warmup is currently running. Look for values: loading keys,
					loading access log, and done. 
				</dd>
			</dlentry>
		</dl>
		
		<ul>
			<li>When <codeph>ep_warmup_state</codeph> is loading keys, compare
					<codeph>ep_warmup_key_count</codeph> (current number) with
					<codeph>ep_warmup_estimated_key_count</codeph> (target number).</li>
			<li>When <codeph>ep_warmup_state</codeph> is loading access log, compare
				<codeph>ep_warmup_value_count</codeph> (current number) with
				<codeph>ep_warmup_estimated_value_count</codeph> (target
				number).</li>
		</ul>
	</body>
	<related-links>
		<linklist>
			<link href="../Concepts/concept-serverWarmup.dita"></link>
			<link href="../CLI/CBstats/cbstats-warmup.dita"></link>
		</linklist>
	</related-links>
</topic>
