<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cbcli-xdcr-ssl">
  <title>Managing SSL certificates</title>
  <shortdesc>Data encryption with Secure Socket Layer (SSL) authentication used Couchbase
    self-signed certificates.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <title>Description</title>
      <p>Retrieving an SSL certificate for XDCR data encryption, should be done in a secure manner,
        such as with <codeph>ssh</codeph> and <codeph>scp</codeph>. For example:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Use a secure method to log in to a node on the destination cluster. For example:
            <codeph>ssh</codeph>.</li>
        <li>Retrieve the certificate with the <codeph>couchbase-cli ssl-manage</codeph>
          command.</li>
        <li>Use a secure method to transfer the certificate from the destination cluster to the
          source cluster. For example: <codeph>scp</codeph>.</li>
        <li>Proceed with setting up XDCR with SSL data encryption.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>CLI command and parameters</title>
      <p>The <codeph>couchbase-cli ssl-manage</codeph> command provides the following options for
        regenerating and retrieving certificates.<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"
          id="table_rbb_g5t_qq">
          <title>ssl-manage command options</title>
          <tgroup cols="2">
            <colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Option</entry>
                <entry>Description</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>--retrieve-cert=[certificate]</entry>
                <entry>Retrieves the self-signed certificate from the destination cluster to the
                  source cluster. Specify a local location (full path) and file name for the
                  pem-encoded certificate. For example,
                    <codeph>--retrieve-cert=./newCert.pem</codeph>.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>--regenerate-cert=[certificate]</entry>
                <entry>Regenerates a self-signed certificate on the destination cluster. Specify the
                  full path for the location of the pem-encoded certificate file. For example,
                    <codeph>--regenerate-cert=./newRegen.pem</codeph>.</entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table></p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Syntax</title>
      <p>To retrieve an existing self-signed certificate, use the <codeph>couchbase-cli
          ssl-manage</codeph> command with the <codeph>--retrieve-cert</codeph> option.</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli ssl-manage -c [localHost]:[port ]
  -u [Administrator] -p [password] 
  --retrieve-cert=./[new-certificate]
</codeblock>
      <p>To regenerate a self-signed certificate, use the <codeph>couchbase-cli ssl-manage</codeph>
        command with the <codeph>--regenerate-cert</codeph> option. </p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli ssl-manage 
  -c [remoteHost]:[port] 
  -u [Administrator] -p [password] 
  --regenerate-cert=[certificate]
</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>The following example retrieves an existing self-signed certificate:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli ssl-manage -c 10.3.4.187:8091 
  -u Administrator -p password 
  --retrieve-cert=./newCert.pem 
    </codeblock>
      <p>The following example regenerating a self-signed certificate:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli ssl-manage 
  -c 10.3.4.187:8091 
  -u Administrator -p password 
  --regenerate-cert=./newRegen.pem 
</codeblock>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Response</title>
      <p>The following is an example of results for a successful retrieval of the certificate:</p>
      <codeblock>SUCCESS: retrieve certificate to './newCert.pem' 
Certificate matches what seen on GUI 
</codeblock>
      <p>The following is an example of results for a successful regeneration of the
        certification:</p>
      <codeblock>SUCCESS: regenerate certificate to './newRegen.pem' 
</codeblock>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
