<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cbcli-xdcr-manage-encryption">
  <title>Managing XDCR data encryption</title>
  <shortdesc>XDCR data encryption with Secure Socket Layer (SSL) is enabled with the <codeph>couchbase-cli</codeph> tool
    and the <codeph>xdcr-setup</codeph> command. Enterprise Edition only.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    
    <section><title>Description</title><p>The Couchbase Server command line
      interface (CLI) enables XDCR data encryption (Enterprise Edition only) when an XDCR cluster
      reference is created or modified.</p>
      
      <p>To setup XDCR with SSL data encryption:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Retrieve the certificate from the destination cluster.</li>
        <li>Create or modify the XDCR configuration to allow data encryption and provide the SSL
          certificate.</li>
        <li>Define the replication.</li>
      </ol>
    </section>
      
      
      <section><title>CLI command and parameters</title>
      
      
      <p>The CLI provides the <codeph>couchbase-cli</codeph> tool and the
          <codeph>xdcr-setup</codeph> command. The <codeph>--xdcr-demand-encryption</codeph> option
        enables and disables XDCR data encryption. The
          <codeph>-xdcr-certificate=CERTIFICATE</codeph> option provides the SSL certificate for
        data security.</p>
      
      </section>
      
      <section><title>Syntax</title>
        <p>To configure XDCR with SSL data encryption, the <codeph>xdcr-setup</codeph> command is
          used.
          The option <codeph>--xdcr-demand-encryption</codeph> enables and disables data encryption. 
        To enable, specify 1. To disable, specify 2 (default).</p>
        <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c localHost:port -u [localAdmin] -p [localPassword]
  --create --xdcr-cluster-name=[remoteClustername] 
  --xdcr-hostname=[remoteHost]:[port] 
  --xdcr-username=[remoteAdmin] --xdcr-password=[remotePassword]
  --xdcr-demand-encryption=[0|1]   // 1 to enable, 0 to disable (default)
  --xdcr-certificate=[localPath]/[certificateFile].pem
    </codeblock>
      </section>
      
      <section><title>Example: Enabling data encryption</title>
        <p>To enable XDCR data encryption, execute <codeph>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup</codeph> with
          <codeph>--xdcr-demand-encryption=1</codeph>. </p>
        <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 10.3.4.186:8091 -u localAdmin -p localPassword
  --create --xdcr-cluster-name=Omaha 
  --xdcr-hostname=10.3.4.187:8091 
  --xdcr-username=Peyton --xdcr-password=Manning 
  --xdcr-demand-encryption=1 
  --xdcr-certificate=./new.pem  
        </codeblock>
      </section>
    
    <section><title>Example: Disabling data encryption</title>
      <p>To disable XDCR data encryption, execute <codeph>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup</codeph> with
        <codeph>--xdcr-demand-encryption=0</codeph>. </p>
      
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli xdcr-setup -c 10.3.4.186:8091 -u localAdmin -p localPassword
  --create --xdcr-cluster-name=Omaha 
  --xdcr-hostname=10.3.4.187:8091 
  --xdcr-username=Peyton --xdcr-password=Manning 
  --xdcr-demand-encryption=0 
</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
    
        
        
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
    <p>The following is an example of results for a successful XDCR configuration.</p>
    <codeblock>SUCCESS: init/edit test 
&lt;&lt;replication reference created&gt;&gt; 
</codeblock>
      
    </section>
    
    
    
    
    
    
  </refbody>
</reference>
