<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="reference_hl3_v2v_sq">
  <title>Rebalancing clusters</title>
  <shortdesc>Clusters are rebalanced whenever a node is added or removed from a cluster.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>The available <codeph>couchbase-cli</codeph> rebalance commands are:</p><table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Command</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>rebalance</entry>
              <entry>Starts a cluster rebalancing.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>rebalance-stop</entry>
              <entry>Stops the current cluster rebalancing.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>rebalance-status</entry>
              <entry>Shows the status of the current cluster rebalancing.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>> </section>
    
    <section><title>CLI command and parameters</title>
      <p>The <codeph>couchbase-cli rebalance</codeph> command options have all of the 
        <codeph>server-add</codeph> command options and some additional options.</p>
      
      <table>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Parameter</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>--server-add=[host]:[port]</entry>
              <entry>Server to be added</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--server-add-username=[username]</entry>
              <entry>Administrator username for the server to be added.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--server-add-password=[password]</entry>
              <entry>Administrator password for the server to be added.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--server-remove=[host]:[port]</entry>
              <entry>The server to be removed.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>--recovery-buckets=BUCKETS</entry>
              <entry>Comma separated list of bucket name. Default is for all buckets.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>

    </section>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
    <p>Syntax:</p>
    <codeblock>
      
    </codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Example: Removing nodes and rebalancing</title>
      <p>The following example removes a node from a cluster and rebalances:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.0.1:8091
    --server-remove=192.168.0.2:8091
</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
    
    <section><title>Example: Adding nodes and rebalancing</title>
      <p>The following example adds a node to a cluster and rebalances:</p>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.0.1:8091 
    --server-add=192.168.0.2:8091 
    --server-add-username=Administrator 
    --server-add-password=password
</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Example: Removing nodes, adding nodes, and rebalancing</title>
      
      <p>The following example removes and adds nodes from/to a cluster and rebalances:</p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.0.1:8091 
    --server-remove=192.168.0.2 
    --server-add=192.168.0.4 
    --server-add-username=Administrator 
    --server-add-password=password
</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    
    <section><title>Example: Stopping rebalance</title>
      <p>The following example stops the current rebalancing:</p>
      
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli rebalance-stop -c 192.168.0.1:8091
</codeblock>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
