<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1303">
  <title>Changing disk cleanup intervals</title>
  <shortdesc>Disk cleanup is the maintenance process of erasing expired items.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
    <p>The <codeph>cbepctl flush_param exp_pager_stime</codeph> command sets the time interval for
        disk cleanup. Couchbase Server does lazy expiration, that is, expired items are flagged as
        deleted rather than being immediately erased. Couchbase Server has a maintenance process
        that periodically look through all information and erase expired items. By default, this
        maintenance process runs every 60 minutes, but it can be configured to run at a different
        interval. </p>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>Basic syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>cbepctl [localhost]:11210 -b [bucket-name] -p [bucket-password] set flush_param exp_pager_stime [value]
</codeblock>
      
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Example</title>
      
      <p>The following example sets the cleanup process to run every 600 seconds (10 minutes). 
        This is the interval that Couchbase Server waits before it tries to remove expired items from disk.</p>
      
    <codeblock>cbepctl 10.5.2.117:11210 set flush_param exp_pager_stime 600
</codeblock>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Response</title>
    <p>The following example response shows the cleanup process set to 600 seconds.</p>
      <codeblock>
setting param: exp_pager_stime 600
set exp_pager_stime to 600
      </codeblock>
    </section>
    
  </refbody>
</reference>
