<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbepctl-intro">
	<title>cbepctl tool</title>
	<shortdesc>The <codeph>cbepctl</codeph> tool is used to control vBucket states, configuration, and 
		memory and disk persistence behavior.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		
		<section><title>Description</title>
			<p>This tool is a per-node, per-bucket operation. 
				That means that the IP address of a node in the cluster and a named bucket must be specified. 
				If a named bucket is not provided, the server applies the setting to any default bucket that exists at the specified node. 
				To perform this operation for an entire cluster, perform the command for every node/bucket combination that exists 
				for that cluster.</p>
			
			<p>For example, when a data bucket is shared by two nodes, 
				issue this command twice and provide the different host names and ports
				for each node along with the bucket name. Similarly, when two data buckets are on the same node, 
				issue the command twice for each data bucket. If a bucket is not
				specified, the command applies to the default bucket or returns an error if a default bucket does not
				exist.</p>
			
			<note type="important">Changes to the cluster configuration using <codeph>cbepctl</codeph> are not persisted
				over a cluster restart.</note>
				
				<p>The tool is found in the following locations:</p>
		
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Operating system</entry>
						<entry>Location</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>Linux</entry>
						<entry>/opt/couchbase/bin/cbepctl</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Windows</entry>
						<entry>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\cbepctl.exe</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Mac OS X</entry>
						<entry>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/cbepctl</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		
	</section>
		
		<section><title>CLI command and parameters</title>
			<p>Basic syntax for this command:</p>
		<codeblock>cbepctl [localhost]:11210 -b [bucket_name] -p [bucket-password] start
cbepctl [localhost]:11210 -b [bucket_name] -p [bucket-password] stop
cbepctl [localhost[:11210 -b [bucket_name] -p [bucket-password] set [command-type] [parameter] [value]
</codeblock>
		<p>For this command, <codeph>host</codeph> is the IP address for the Couchbase cluster or node in
				the cluster. The port is always the standard port used for cluster-wide stats and is
				at <codeph>11210</codeph>. The bucket name and password is provided first and then
				the command option and authentication.</p>
		<p>Use the following command options to manage persistence:</p>
		<table>
			<title>cbepctl command options</title>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
				<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="4.41*"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Command option</entry>
						<entry>Description</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>stop</entry>
						<entry>Stop persistence</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>start</entry>
						<entry>Start persistence</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>drain</entry>
						<entry>Wait until queues are drained</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>set</entry>
						<entry>Set <codeph>checkpoint_param</codeph>, <codeph>flush_param</codeph>, and
									<codeph>tap_param</codeph> command types. This changes how or
								when persistence occurs.</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
			
		<p>The <codeph>set</codeph> command option along with the <codeph>checkpoint_param</codeph>,
					<codeph>flush_param</codeph>, and <codeph>tap_param</codeph> command types
				change the behavior of persistence in Couchbase Server.</p>
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>cbepctl set checkpoint_param</title>
		<p>The parameters for <codeph>set checkpoint_param</codeph> are:</p>
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Parameter</entry>
						<entry>Description</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>chk_max_items</entry>
						<entry>Max number of items allowed in a checkpoint.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>chk_period</entry>
						<entry>Time bound (in sec.) on a checkpoint.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>item_num_based_new_chk</entry>
						<entry>True if a new checkpoint can be created based on. the number of items
							in the open checkpoint.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>keep_closed_chks</entry>
						<entry>True if we want to keep closed checkpoints in memory, as long as the
							current memory usage is below high water mark.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>max_checkpoints</entry>
						<entry>Max number of checkpoints allowed per vbucket. </entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>enable_chk_merge</entry>
						<entry>True, if merging closed checkpoints is enabled.</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		</section>
	
		
		<section><title>cbepctl set flush_param</title>
			
			<p>The parameters for <codeph>set flush_param</codeph> are:</p>
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Parameter</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>alog_sleep_time</entry>
							<entry>Access scanner interval (minute)</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>alog_task_time</entry>
							<entry>Access scanner next task time (UTC)</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>backfile_mem_threshold</entry>
							<entry>Memory threshold (%) on the current bucket quota before backfill task is made to back off.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>bg_fetch_delay</entry>
							<entry>Delay before executing a bg fetch (test feature).</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>couch_response_timeout</entry>
							<entry>timeout in receiving a response from CouchDB.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>exp_pager_stime</entry>
							<entry>Expiry Pager interval. Time interval that Couchbase Server waits
								before it performs cleanup and removal of expired items from
								disk.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>flushall_enabled</entry>
							<entry>Deprecated. Enable flush operation.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>pager_active_vb_pcnt</entry>
							<entry>Percentage of active vBuckets items among all ejected items by item pager.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>max_size</entry>
							<entry>Maximum memory used by the server.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>mem_high_wat</entry>
							<entry>Low water mark by percentage.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>mem_low_wat</entry>
							<entry>High water mark by percentage.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>mutation_mem_threshold</entry>
							<entry>Amount of RAM that can be consumed in that caching layer before
								clients start receiving temporary out of memory messages.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>timing_log</entry>
							<entry>Path to log detailed timing stats. </entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>warmup_min_memory_threshold</entry>
							<entry>Memory threshold (%) during warmup to enable traffic.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>warmup_min_item_threshold</entry>
							<entry>Item number threshold (%) during warmup to enable traffic.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>max_num_readers</entry>
							<entry>Override the default number of global threads that prioritize read operations.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>max_num_writers</entry>
							<entry>Override the default number of global threads that prioritize write
								operations.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>max_num_auxio</entry>
							<entry>Override the default number of global threads that prioritize auxio
								operations.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>max_num_nonio</entry>
							<entry>Override the default number of global threads that prioritize nonio
								operations.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>

		</section>
		
		<section><title>cbepctl set tap_param</title>
			<p>The parameters for <codeph>set tap_param</codeph> are:</p>
		
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Parameter</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>tap_keepalive</entry>
							<entry>Seconds to hold a named tap connection.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>tap_throttle_queue_cap</entry>
							<entry>Maximum disk write queue size to throttle tap streams (infinite means no cap).</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>tap_throttle_cap_pcnt</entry>
							<entry>Percentage of total items in write queue at which we throttle tap input.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>tap_throttle_threshold</entry>
							<entry>Percentage of memory in use to throttle tap streams</entry>
						</row>
						
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		
		</section>
		
	</refbody>
	<related-links>
		<linklist>
			<link href="CBcli/cbcli-buckets.dita"/>
			<link href="../REST/rest-bucket-flush.dita"/>
			<link href="../UI/ui-data-buckets.dita"/>
		</linklist>
	</related-links>
</reference>
