<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="security-client-ssl">
	<title>Encrypted data access</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase Server client libraries support client-side encryption using the Secure
		Sockets Layer (SSL) protocol.</shortdesc>
	
		
	<conbody>
		
		<note type="attention">This feature is available only in the Enterprise edition.</note>
		<p>Encryption for data access is performed through client-server communication and view
			access.</p>
		

		<section><title>SSL based client-server communication</title>
			<p>Couchbase Server client libraries support client-side encryption using the SSL protocol by
				encrypting data in-flight between the client and the server. Secure client-server
				communication is provided with Couchbase clients released after version 2.0, and
				does not require configuration.</p>
			<p>Client-server communication also allows for the cases where some of the clients communicate with the server using SSL, while the other clients do not.</p>
			<p>To enable SSL on the client side, you need to get an SSL certificate from Couchbase Server
				and then follow the steps specific to the client you are using. </p>
			<p>To obtain the certificate, access the Couchbase Web Console, 
				navigate to <menucascade>
					<uicontrol>Settings</uicontrol><uicontrol>Certificate</uicontrol><uicontrol>Show certificate</uicontrol>
				</menucascade> and copy the certificate.</p>
			
			<note type="note">If the Couchbase Server SSL certificate is regenerated, you must obtain a new certificate.</note>
			
			<p>The following clients support SSL:</p>
			<ul>
				<li>Java</li>
				<li>.NET</li>
				<li>Node.js</li>
				<li>PHP</li>
				<li>C</li>
			</ul>
			
			<note type="note">The Couchbase network port <codeph>11207</codeph> is used for data communication between the client and the data nodes using SSL.</note>
			
		</section>
		<section><title>SSL based view access</title>
			<p>A new port <codeph>18092</codeph> is established for view access: <codeph>https://couchbase_server:18092</codeph></p></section>
		
	</conbody>
</concept>
