<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1398">
 <title>Deployment considerations</title>
 <shortdesc>Deployment configuration take into account topics such as restricted access, node
  communication, swap configuration, and connection timeouts.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <p>When configuring the Couchbase Server deployment, pay attention to the following:</p>
  
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Restricted access to Moxi ports</dt>
    <dd>Make sure that only trusted machines (including the other nodes in the cluster) can access the
     ports that Moxi uses.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Restricted access to web console (port 8091)</dt>
    <dd>The web console is password protected. However, we recommend that you restrict access to port
     8091; an abuser could do potentially harmful operations (like remove a node) from the web
     console.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Node to node communication on ports</dt>
    <dd>All nodes in the cluster should be able to communicate with each other on 11210 and 8091</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Swap configuration</dt>
    <dd>Swap should be configured on Couchbase Server. This prevents the operating system from
     killing Couchbase Server should the system RAM be exhausted. Having swap provides more options on
     how to manage such a situation.</dd><dd>See <xref href="swap-space.dita">Swap space </xref> 
      for a recommendation about setting up a swap space on Linux.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Idle connection timeouts</dt>
    <dd>Some firewall or proxy software will drop TCP connections if they are idle for a certain amount
     of time (e.g. 20 minutes). If the software does not allow you to change that timeout, send a
     command from the client periodically to keep the connection alive.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  <dl>
   <dlentry>
    <dt>Port Exhaustion on Windows</dt>
    <dd>The TCP/IP port allocation on Windows by default includes a restricted number of ports
     available for client communication.</dd>
   </dlentry>
  </dl>
  
 </body>

</topic>
