<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic2722">
 <title>Ongoing monitoring and maintenance</title>
 <shortdesc>There are a number of different statistics used to monitor a cluster and diagnose and
    identify problems.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <p>To understand how the cluster is working and whether it is working effectively, use the
   following statistics:</p>
  <ul>
   <li>Memory Used ( <codeph>mem_used</codeph> ) - The current size of memory used. If
     <codeph>mem_used</codeph> hits the RAM quota, you will get <codeph>OOM_ERROR</codeph>.
    The <codeph>mem_used</codeph> must be less than <codeph>ep_mem_high_wat</codeph>, which is the
    mark where data is ejected from the disk.</li>
  <li>Disk Write Queue Size ( <codeph>ep_queue_size</codeph> ) - The amount of data waiting to be
    written to disk.</li>
  <li>Cache Hits ( <codeph>get_hits</codeph> ) - As a rule of thumb, this must be at least 90% of the total requests.</li>
   <li>Cache Misses ( <codeph>ep_bg_fetched</codeph> ) - Ideally this must be low, and certainly
    lower than <codeph>get_hits</codeph>. Increasing or high values indicate that the data your
    application expects to be stored is not in memory.</li>
   <li>No document available ( <codeph>get_misses</codeph>) - Couchbase Server does not have the
    document.</li>
  </ul>
  <p>Another key statistic to monitor cluster performance is a <term>water mark</term>, which 
   determines when it is necessary to start freeing up available memory. Two important statistics related to water marks include:</p>
  <ul>
   <li>High Water Mark ( <codeph>ep_mem_high_wat</codeph> ) - The system starts ejecting data out of
    memory when this water mark is met. Ejected values need to be fetched from disk when accessed
    before being returned to the client.</li>
   <li>Low Water Mark ( <codeph>ep_mem_low_wat</codeph> ) - When the low water mark threshold is
    reached, it indicates that memory usage is moving toward a critical point and system
    administration action must be taken before the high water mark is reached.</li>
  </ul>
  
  <note type="tip">Use the following command to get statistic information: <codeblock>shell&gt; cbstats IP:11210 all | \
    egrep "todo|ep_queue_size|_eject|mem|max_data|hits|misses"
</codeblock>
      <p>The following statistic information is provided:</p>
      <codeblock>ep_flusher_todo:
ep_max_data_size:
ep_mem_high_wat:
ep_mem_low_wat:
ep_num_eject_failures:
ep_num_value_ejects:
ep_queue_size:
mem_used:
ep_bg_fetched:
get_hits:
</codeblock>
    </note>
  
  <note type="tip">Monitor the disk space, CPU usage, and swapping on all nodes using the standard monitoring tools.</note>
  
 </body>
 <related-links>
  <linklist>
   <link href="concept-diskStorage.dita"></link>
  </linklist>
 </related-links>
</topic>
