<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbcli-intro">
	<title>couchbase-cli tool</title>
	<shortdesc>The <codeph>couchbase-cli</codeph> tool is used to perform operations on an entire cluster.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Description</title>
			<p>The  <codeph>couchbase-cli</codeph> tool is located in the following paths, depending upon the
				platform. This tool can perform operations on an entire cluster, on a bucket shared
				across an entire cluster, or on a single node in a cluster. For instance, if this
				tool is used to create a data bucket, all nodes in the cluster have access the
				bucket.</p>
			
			<p>This tool provides access to various management operations for Couchbase Server clusters,
				nodes and buckets. </p>
		<note type="note">Many of these settings can be performed using the REST API.</note>

		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Operating System</entry>
						<entry>Directory Locations</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Linux</b></entry>
						<entry><codeph>/opt/couchbase/bin/couchbase-cli</codeph></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Windows</b></entry>
						<entry><codeph>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\couchbase-cli.exe</codeph></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Mac OS X</b></entry>
						<entry><codeph>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/couchbase-cli</codeph></entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>couchbase-cli options</title>
			<p>The <codeph>couchbase-cli</codeph> tool has the following generic options:</p>
			<table>
				<title>couchbase-cli command options</title>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Option</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>-u USERNAME, --user=USERNAME</entry>
							<entry>Admin username of the cluster</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-p PASSWORD, --password=PASSWORD</entry>
							<entry>Admin password of the cluster</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-o KIND, --output=KIND</entry>
							<entry>Type of document: JSON or standard</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-d, --debug</entry>
							<entry>Output debug information</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-h, --help</entry>
							<entry>Help information</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			
			<note type="note">The user name can be in the environment variable CB_REST_USERNAME and 
			the password can be set in the environment variable CB_REST_PASSWORD.</note>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>The basic usage format is:</p>
		<codeblock>couchbase-cli COMMAND [bucket-name] CLUSTER [OPTIONS]
		</codeblock>
		<p>Where:</p>
		<ul>
			<li><codeph>COMMAND</codeph> is a CLI command. </li>
			<li><codeph>CLUSTER</codeph> is a cluster specification. The following shows both
					short and long form syntax:</li>
		</ul>
		<codeblock><codeph>// Short form
    -c [host]:[port]
// Long form
    --cluster=[host]:[port]
</codeph></codeblock>
			
		</section>
		
	</refbody>
</reference>
