<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbcollect-info-tool">
	<title>cbcollect_info tool</title>
	<shortdesc>The <codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph> tool provides detailed statistics for a specific node.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Description</title>
			
			<p>This tool is a per-node operation. 
				This command collects information from an individual Couchbase Server node.
				To collect diagnostic information for an entire cluster, perform the command for every node that exists for that
				cluster.
				If you are experiencing problems with multiple nodes in a cluster, you may need to run it on
				all nodes in a cluster.
			</p>
			<p>A root account is required to run this command and collect all the server information
				needed. There are internal server files and directories that this tool accesses which
				require root privileges.</p>
			<p>To use this command, remotely connect to the machine which contains the Couchbase
				Server then issue the command with options. This command is typically run under the
				direction of technical support at Couchbase and generates a large .zip file. This
				archive contains files which contain performance statistics and
				extracts from server logs.
			</p>
			
			
		<note type="attention"><codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph> is one of the most important diagnostic tools used by Couchbase technical support.</note>
		
		<p>This tool is at the following locations</p>
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Operating System</entry>
						<entry>Location</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>Linux</entry>
						<entry>/opt/couchbase/bin/cbcollect_info</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Windows</entry>
						<entry>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\cbcollect_info</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Mac OS X</entry>
						<entry>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/cbcollect_info</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		
			<p>The tool creates the following log files in the output file:</p>
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Log file</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>couchbase.log</entry>
							<entry>OS-level information about a node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ddocs.log</entry>
							<entry>Contains diagnostic dumps design documents and replication documents from this node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>diag.log</entry>
							<entry>Contains all kinds of internal diagnostics (list and states of processes, user-visible logs, in-memory stats, etc) 
								from within live node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ini.log</entry>
							<entry>Contains dumps of couchdb .ini files.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>memcached.log</entry>
							<entry>Contains logs from memcached.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.babysitter.log</entry>
							<entry>Logs of babysitter.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.couchdb.log</entry>
							<entry>Information about the persistence layer for a node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.debug.log</entry>
							<entry>Debug-level information for the cluster management component of this
								node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.error.log</entry>
							<entry>Error-level information for the cluster management component of this
								node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.http_access.log</entry>
							<entry>Contains log of http requests to port 8091.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.info.log</entry>
							<entry>Info-level entries for the cluster management component of this
								node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.mapreduce_errors.log</entry>
							<entry>Contains logs of errors from map/reduce functions.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.reports.log</entry>
							<entry>Contains crash reports of erlang services.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.ssl_proxy.log</entry>
							<entry>Los of the ssl proxy component.</entry>
						</row><row>
							<entry>ns_server.stats.log</entry>
							<entry>Logs of statistic related components of ns_server.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.views.log</entry>
							<entry>Includes information about indexing, time taken for indexing, queries
								which have been run, and other statistics about views.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.xdcr_errors.log</entry>
							<entry>Error-level messages of the ns_server.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>ns_server.xdcr.log</entry>
							<entry>XDCR logs.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>stats.log</entry>
							<entry>The results from multiple <codeph>cbstats</codeph> options run for
								the node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>syslog.tar.gz</entry>
							<entry>Archive of the operating system logs.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>CLI command and parameters</title>
			<p>The following describes usage, where <codeph>output-file</codeph> is the name of the .zip file 
				to create and send to Couchbase technical support.</p>
		<codeblock>cbcollect_info [options] [output-file]</codeblock>
			
		<p>The<codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph> command gathers statistics  from an
				individual node in the cluster.</p>
			
			<table>
				<title>cbcollect_info options</title>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Parameter</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>-h, --help</entry>
							<entry>Shows help information.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-r ROOT</entry>
							<entry>Root directory. Default to <codeph>/opt/couchbase/bin/..</codeph></entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-v</entry>
							<entry>Increases verbosity level. If specified, debugging information for
								<codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph> is also displayed on your console.
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-p</entry>
							<entry>Gathers only product-related information.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-d</entry>
							<entry>Dumps a list of commands that <codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph> needs.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>--initargs-INITARG</entry>
							<entry>Ther server <codeph>initargs</codeph> path.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>--single-node-diag</entry>
							<entry>Collects on aper node basis, diagnostics on just this node. The default is all reachable nodes.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>--upload-host=UPLOAD_HOST</entry>
							<entry>Fully-qualified domain name of the host you want the logs uploaded to. 
								The protocol prefix of the domain name, <codeph>https://</codeph>, is optional. 
								It is the default only supported protocol.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>--customer=UPLOAD_CUSTOMER</entry>
							<entry>
								Customer name. This value is a string with a maximum length of 50 characters that contains only the following characters: [A-Za-z0-9_.-]. 
								If any other characters are included in the string, the request is rejected. 
							</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>--ticket=UPLOAD_TICKET</entry>
							<entry>Couchbase support ticket number. This value is a string with a maximum length of 7 character that contains only digits 0-9. The ticket number is optional and is used only in conjunction with the --upload option.
							</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>

			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
			<p>To create a diagnostics .zip file, log onto the node and run the <codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph> tool.</p>
			<codeblock>
cbcollect_info collect.zip
			</codeblock>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Response</title>
			
			<p>The following example response shows partial output when running the <codeph>cbcollect_info</codeph> command.</p>
			<codeblock>
uname (uname -a) - OK
time and TZ (date; date -u) - OK
raw /etc/sysconfig/clock (cat /etc/sysconfig/clock) - OK
raw /etc/timezone (cat /etc/timezone) - Exit code 1
System Hardware (lshw -json || lshw) - Exit code 127

...

adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/couchbase.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/couchbase.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.xdcr.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.xdcr.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.couchdb.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.couchdb.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/stats.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/stats.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ini.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ini.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.error.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.error.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.ssl_proxy.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.ssl_proxy.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.views.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.views.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.info.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.info.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.xdcr_errors.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.xdcr_errors.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.mapreduce_errors.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.mapreduce_errors.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/diag.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/diag.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.http_access.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.http_access.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/syslog.tar.gz -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/syslog.tar.gz
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.debug.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.debug.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ddocs.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ddocs.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.reports.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.reports.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/memcached.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/memcached.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.babysitter.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.babysitter.log
adding: /tmp/tmpMYbSyD/ns_server.stats.log -> cbcollect_info_ns_1@10.5.2.117_20141209-024045/ns_server.stats.log
			</codeblock>
			
		</section>
		
		
		
	</refbody>
	<related-links>
		<linklist>
			<link href="../CLI/cbstats-intro.dita"/>
			<link
				href="http://www.couchbase.com/wiki/display/couchbase/Working+with+the+Couchbase+Technical+Support+Team"
				scope="external" format="html">
				<linktext>Working with Couchbase Customer Support</linktext>
			</link>
		</linklist>
	</related-links>
</reference>
