<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbreset_password_tool">
	<title>cbreset_password tool</title>
	<shortdesc>The <codeph>cbreset_password</codeph> tool is used to reset an administrative or user
		read-only password.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Description</title>
		<p>This tool is found in the following locations, depending upon your platform:</p>
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Operating System</entry>
						<entry>Location</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Linux</b></entry>
						<entry><codeph>/opt/couchbase/bin/</codeph></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Windows</b></entry>
						<entry><codeph>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\</codeph></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><b>Mac OS X</b></entry>
						<entry><codeph>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/</codeph></entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
		<p>To reset the administrative password:</p>
		<codeblock>cbreset_password [hostname]:[port]</codeblock>
		<p>This results in output as follows:</p>
		<codeblock>Please enter the new administrative password (or &lt;Enter&gt; for system generated password):
</codeblock>
		<p>Enter a password of six characters or more or accept the system generated password.
			After entering a password or accepting a generated one, the system prompts for
			confirmation:</p>
		<codeblock>Running this command will reset administrative password.
Do you really want to do it? (yes/no)yes
</codeblock>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
			<p>The following example resets the password and shows a successful response.</p>
			<codeblock>
# cbreset_password 10.5.2.117:8091

Please enter the new administrative password (or &lt;Enter&gt; for system generated password):

Running this command will reset administrative password.
Do you really want to do it? (yes/no)yes
Resetting administrative password...
Password for user Administrator was successfully replaced.
			</codeblock>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Response</title>
		<p>The following example response shows a system generated password.</p>
		<codeblock>Resetting administrative password...
Password for user Administrator was successfully replaced. New password is Uxye76FJ
</codeblock>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Response errors</title>
		<p>There are a few possible errors from this command:</p>
		<codeblock>{error,&lt;&lt;"The password must be at least six characters."&gt;&gt;}

{error,&lt;&lt;"Failed to reset administrative password. Node is not initialized."&gt;&gt;}
</codeblock>
		<p>The first error message indicates that the password wasn't long enough. The second
			error message indicates that Couchbase Server is not yet configured and running.</p>
		</section>
	</refbody>
</reference>
