<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cdbrestore-tool">
  <title>cbrestore tool</title>
  <shortdesc>The <codeph>cbrestore</codeph> tool restores data from a file to an entire cluster or
    to a single bucket in the cluster. </shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    <section><title>Description</title>
    
    <p>Items that had been written to file on disk are restored to RAM.The
        <codeph>cbbackup</codeph>, <codeph>cbrestore</codeph>, and <codeph>cbtransfer</codeph> tools
        do not communicate with external IP addresses for server nodes outside of a cluster. Backup,
        restore, or transfer operations are performed on data from a node within a Couchbase
        cluster. They only communicate with nodes from a node list obtained within a cluster. This
        also means that if Couchbase Server is installed with a default IP address, an external
        hostname cannot be used to access it.</p>
    <p>The tool is in the following locations:</p>
    <table>
      <tgroup cols="2">
        <colspec colname="col1"/>
        <colspec colname="col2"/>
        <thead>
          <row>
            <entry>Operating system</entry>
            <entry>Location</entry>
          </row>
        </thead>
        <tbody>
          <row>
            <entry>Linux</entry>
            <entry><codeph>/opt/couchbase/bin/cbrestore</codeph></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Windows</entry>
            <entry><codeph>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\cbrestore</codeph></entry>
          </row>
          <row>
            <entry>Mac OS X</entry>
            <entry><codeph>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/cbrestore</codeph></entry>
          </row>
        </tbody>
      </tgroup>
    </table>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>CLI command and parameters</title>
      
      <p>Basic syntax for this command:</p>
      <codeblock>cbrestore [options] [backup-dir] [destination]</codeblock>
      
      
      
      <p>Where:</p><ul>
        <li>[options]<p>Command options for <codeph>cbrestore</codeph> are the same
            options for <codeph>cbtransfer</codeph>.</p></li>
        <li>[backup-dir]<p>The backup directory for the source data. This is in the
            directory created by <codeph>cbbackup</codeph> when performing the backup.</p></li>
        <li>[destination]<p>The destination bucket for the restored information.
            This is a bucket in an existing cluster. If restoring data to a single node in a
            cluster, provide the hostname and port of the node being restored to. If restoring an
            entire data bucket, provide the URL of one of the nodes within the cluster.</p></li>
      </ul>
      
      <note type="important">Be sure to create the destination bucket before restoring the data.</note>
      
      <p>The following are the command options:</p>
      <table>
        <title>cbrestore options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>Parameters</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>-h, –help</entry>
              <entry>Command line help.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-a, –add</entry>
              <entry>Used to not overwrite existing items in the destination. Use add instead of set.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-b BUCKET_SOURCE, --bucket-source=BUCKET_SOURCE</entry>
              <entry>Single named bucket from the backup directory to restore. If the backup
                directory only contains a signle bucket, then that bucket is automatically
                used.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-B BUCKET_DESTINATION, –bucket-destination=BUCKET_DESTINATION</entry>
              <entry>When --bucket-source is specified, overrides the destination bucket name. This
                allow you to restore to a different bucket. Defaults to the same as the
                bucket-source.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>from-date=FROM_DATE</entry>
              <entry>Restore data from the date specified as yyyy-mm-dd. By default, all data from the very beginning is restored.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>to-date=TO_DATE</entry>
              <entry>Restore data until the date specified as yyyy-mm-dd. By default, all data collected is restored.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-i ID, –id=ID</entry>
              <entry>Transfer only items that match a vbucket ID.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-k KEY, –key=KEY</entry>
              <entry>Transfer only items with keys that match a regexp.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-n, –dry-run</entry>
              <entry>No actual transfer. Just validate parameters, files, connectivity and
                configurations.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-u USERNAME, –username=USERNAME</entry>
              <entry>REST username for source cluster or server node.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-p PASSWORD, –password=PASSWORD</entry>
              <entry>REST password for cluster or server node.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-t THREADS, –threads=THREADS</entry>
              <entry>Number of concurrent workers threads performing the transfer. </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-v, –verbose</entry>
              <entry>Verbose logging. More v's provide more verbosity. Max: -vvv.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>-x EXTRA, –extra=EXTRA</entry>
              <entry>Provide extra, uncommon configuration parameters. Comma-separated key=val(key-val)* pairs.</entry>
            </row>
            
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>The following are extra, specialized command options with the <codeph>cbrestore -x</codeph>
        parameter.</p>
      
      <table>
        <title>cbrestore -x options</title>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colname="col2"/>
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>-x options</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
            
          </thead>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>backoff_cap=10</entry>
              <entry>Maximum backoff time during the rebalance period.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>batch_max_bytes=400000</entry>
              <entry>Transfer this # of bytes per batch.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>batch_max_size=1000</entry>
              <entry>Transfer this # of documents per batch.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>cbb_max_mb=100000</entry>
              <entry>Split backup file on destination cluster if it exceeds the MB.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>conflict_resolve=1</entry>
              <entry>By default, disable conflict resolution.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>data_only=0</entry>
              <entry>For value 1, transfer only data from a backup file or cluster.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>design_doc_only=0</entry>
              <entry>For value 1, transfer only design documents from a backup file or cluster. Default: 0.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>max_retry=10</entry>
              <entry>Max number of sequential retries if the transfer fails.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>mcd_compatible=1</entry>
              <entry>For value 0, display extended fields for stdout output.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>nmv_retry=1</entry>
              <entry>0 or 1, where 1 retries transfer after a NOT_MY_VBUCKET message. Default: 1.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>recv_min_bytes=4096</entry>
              <entry>Amount of bytes for every TCP/IP batch transferred.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>rehash=0</entry>
              <entry>For value 1, rehash the partition id's of each item. 
                This is required when transferring data between clusters with
                different number of partitions, such as when transferring data from an
                Mac OS X server to a non-Mac OS X cluster.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>report=5</entry>
              <entry>Number batches transferred before updating progress bar in console.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>report_full=2000</entry>
              <entry>Number batches transferred before emitting progress information in console.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>seqno=0</entry>
              <entry>By default, start seqno from beginning.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>try_xwm=1</entry>
              <entry>Transfer documents with metadata. Default: 1. Value of 0 is only used when transferring
                from 1.8.x to 1.8.x.</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>uncompress=0</entry>
              <entry>For value 1, restore data in uncompressed mode.</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <p>The following is the basic syntax:</p>
      <codeblock>cbrestore [options] [backup-dir] [destination]</codeblock>
      
      
      <p>The following are syntax examples:</p>
      
      <codeblock>
cbrestore /backups/backup-42 http://HOST:8091 \
  --bucket-source=default --from-date=2014-01-20 --to-date=2014-03-31
cbrestore /backups/backup-42 couchbase://HOST:8091 \
  --bucket-source=default
cbrestore /backups/backup-42 memcached://HOST:11211 \
  --bucket-source=sessions --bucket-destination=sessions2
			</codeblock>
      
      
    </section>
    
    
   
    
    
    
   
    
    
   
    
  </refbody>
  <related-links>
    <linklist>
      <link href="https://github.com/couchbase/couchbase-cli" scope="external" format="html">
        <linktext>Couchbase command-line tools GitHub repository</linktext></link>
      <link href="../Install/hostnames.dita"/>
      <link href="../UI/ui-views-editor.dita"/>
      <link href="../CLI/cbbackup_tool.dita"/>
      <link href="../CLI/cbtransfer_tool.dita"/>
    </linklist>
  </related-links>
</reference>
