<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbworkloadgen_tool">
	<title>cbworkloadgen tool</title>
	<shortdesc>The <codeph>cbworkloadgen</codeph> tool is used to generate random data and perform read/writes.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Description</title>
			<p>The <codeph>cbworkloadgen</codeph> tool is useful for testing Couchbase servers and clusters.</p>
			
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<colspec colname="col1"/>
					<colspec colname="col2"/>
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Option</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>-h, --help</entry>
							<entry>Show this help message and exit.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-r [number], --ratio-sets=[number]</entry>
							<entry>The percentage of workload that are writes; the remainder is reads.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-n [localhost]:8091, --node=[localhost]:8091</entry>
							<entry>Node's ns_server ip:port.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-b [bucket-name], --bucket=[bucket-name]</entry>
							<entry>Insert data to a different bucket other than default.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-i [number], --max-items=[number]</entry>
							<entry>Number of inserted items.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-s [number], --size=[number]</entry>
							<entry>Minimum value size.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>--prefix=pymc</entry>
							<entry>Prefix to use for memcached keys or json IDs.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-j, --json</entry>
							<entry>Insert json data.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-l, --loop</entry>
							<entry>Loop forever until interrupted by user</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-u [username], --username=[username]</entry>
							<entry>REST username for cluster or server node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-p [password], --password=[password]</entry>
							<entry>REST password for cluster or server node.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-t [number], --threads=[number]</entry>
							<entry>Number of concurrent threads.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-v, --verbose</entry>
							<entry>Verbose logging; more -v's provide more verbosity.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			
		
		<p>The tool is at the following locations:</p>
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Operating system</entry>
						<entry>Location</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>Linux</entry>
						<entry>/opt/couchbase/bin/</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Windows</entry>
						<entry>C:\Program Files\Couchbase\Server\bin\</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Mac OS X</entry>
						<entry>/Applications/Couchbase Server.app/Contents/Resources/couchbase-core/bin/</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		</section>
			
			<section><title>Syntax</title>
		<p>Basic command format:</p>
		<codeblock>cbworkloadgen -n [localhost]:8091 -u [username] -p [password] [option]	</codeblock>
			</section>
		
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
			<p>For example, to generate workload on a given Couchbase node and open port on that
			node:</p>
		<codeblock>
cbworkloadgen -n 10.5.2.54:8091
	-r .9 -i 100000
	-s 100
	-b my-other-bucket
	-t 10
		</codeblock>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Response</title>
		<p>If successful, produces a result similar to the following</p>
		<codeblock>
  [####################] 100.0% (1111110/estimated 1111110 msgs)
bucket: default, msgs transferred...
       :                total |       last |    per sec
 byte  :            111111000 |  111111000 |   636622.5
done
</codeblock>
		
		</section>
	</refbody>
</reference>
