<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="cli-failover">
  <title>Failing over nodes</title>
  <shortdesc>Nodes are failed over either by a graceful failover or hard failover operation. 
    Graceful failover is the default.</shortdesc>
  <refbody>
    
    <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>Nodes are failed over with one of the following methods:
      <ul>
        <li>Graceful failover</li>
        <li>Hard failover</li>
      </ul></p>
      
      <p>Graceful failover safely fails over nodes from clusters by allowing all in-flight operations to complete 
        before implementing the failover operation. 
        Graceful failover is the default behavior for the <codeph>couchbase-cli failover</codeph> operation.</p>

      <p>Hard failover immediately fails over nodes from clusters. 
        To perform a hard failover, the <codeph>--force</codeph> option is used. 
        Hard failover is typically used when the node is in a bad state. 
        Auto-failover is a hard failover. </p>
      
      <note type="note">Be sure to update any scripts that implement failover.</note>
    </section>
    
    <section><title>Syntax</title>
      <codeblock>couchbase-cli failover
    --cluster=HOST:PORT
    --server-failover=HOST:PORT
    --user=ADMIN 
    --password=PASSWORD </codeblock>
    
    </section>

      
      <section><title>Example: Setting failover, readd, recovery, and rebalance operations</title>
      <p>The following example shows a failover, readd, recovery and rebalance sequence operations,
        where as, a node in a cluster is gracefully failed over, the node is re-added to the
        cluster, a delta recovery is implemented for the node, and rebalance is performed on the
        cluster:</p>
      
      <codeblock>
couchbase-cli failover -c 192.168.0.1:8091 \\	
    --server-failover=192.168.0.2 \\	
    -u Administrator -p password	
				
couchbase-cli server-readd -c 192.168.0.1:8091 \\	
    --server-add=192.168.0.2 \\	
    -u Administrator -p password	
			
couchbase-cli recovery -c 192.168.0.1:8091 \\	
    --server-recovery=192.168.0.2 \\	
    --recovery-type=delta \\	
    -u Administrator -p password	
				
couchbase-cli rebalance -c 192.168.0.1:8091 \\	
    -u Administrator -p password          
      </codeblock>
      </section>
    
    <section><title>Example: Failing over a node immediately</title>
      <p>The following example shows a node failing over immediately, that is, a hard failover is
        implemented rather than a graceful failover.</p>
      <codeblock>
couchbase-cli failover -c 192.168.0.1:8091 \\	
    --server-failover=192.168.0.2 \\	
    --force  \\
    -u Administrator -p password             
      </codeblock>
    </section>
      
    
    
  </refbody>
</reference>
