<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbcli-rza">
   <title>Rack-zone awareness</title>
   <shortdesc>Rack-Zone Awareness enables logical groupings of servers on a cluster where each server
      group physically belongs to a rack or Availability Zone. <b>Enterprise Edition only.</b></shortdesc>


   <refbody>
      <section><title>Description</title>
      <p>The Rack-Zone Awareness feature provides the ability to specify that active and
         corresponding replica partitions be created on servers that are part of a separate rack or
         zone. To enable Rack-Zone Awareness, all servers in a cluster must be upgraded. </p>

      
      <note type="note">The Rack-Zone Awareness feature with its server group capability is an
         Enterprise Edition feature.</note>
      <p>To configure servers into groups, use the <codeph>couchbase-cli</codeph> tool with the
            <codeph>group-manage</codeph> command.</p>
      </section>
      
      <section><title>CLI command and parameters</title>
         
         <table>
            <title>group-manage options</title>
            <tgroup cols="2">
               <colspec colname="col1"/>
               <colspec colname="col2"/>
               <thead>
                  <row>
                     <entry>Option</entry>
                     <entry>Description</entry>
                  </row>
               </thead>
               <tbody>
                  <row>
                     <entry></entry>
                     <entry></entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>-c HOST:PORT or --cluster=HOST:PORT</entry>
                     <entry>Cluster location</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>-u USERNAME or --username=USERNAME</entry>
                     <entry>Administrator username for the cluster</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>-p PASSWORD or --password=PASSWORD</entry>
                     <entry>Administrator password for the cluster</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>--list</entry>
                     <entry>Shows the server groups and the servers assigned to each server group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>--create --group-name=groupName</entry>
                     <entry>Creates a server group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>--delete --group-name=groupName</entry>
                     <entry>Removes an empty server group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>--rename=newGroupName --group-name=oldGroupName</entry>
                     <entry>Renames an existing server group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>--group-name=groupName --add-servers="HOST:PORT;HOST:PORT"</entry>
                     <entry>Adds servers to a group.</entry>
                  </row>
                  <row>
                     <entry>--from-group=groupName --to-group=groupName
                        --move-servers="HOST:PORT;HOST:PORT"</entry>
                     <entry>Moves one or more servers from one group to another.</entry>
                  </row>
               </tbody>
            </tgroup>
         </table>

      </section>
      
      <section><title>Syntax</title>
         <p>General syntax with <codeph>group-manage</codeph>:</p>
         
         <codeblock>
couchbase-cli group-manage -c [localhost]:[port] 
    -u [admin] -p [password]
    [options]
</codeblock>
      </section>
      
      <section><title>Example: Creating server groups</title>
         <p>In the following example, a server group is
            created.</p>
         
         
         <note type="note">The <codeph>-create --group-name</codeph> command can fail when an
            exclamation (!) is present inside the group name.
         </note>
         
         <codeblock>
couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091 
   -u myAdminName
   -p myAdminPassword
   --create --group-name=myGroupName
</codeblock></section>
      
      <section><title>Example: Adding servers to server groups</title>
         
         <p>In the following example, two
            servers are added to a server group using the <codeph>group-manage</codeph>
            command.</p>
         
         <codeblock>
couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091 
   -u myAdminName
   -p myAdminPassword
   --group-name=myNewGroup
   --add-servers="10.1.1.1:8091;10.1.1.2:8091"
</codeblock>
         
         <p>In
            the following example, a server is added to the server group using the
               <codeph>server-add</codeph> command.</p>
         
         
         <note type="note">The <codeph>couchbase-cli
            group-manage</codeph> command is the preferred method of adding servers to server
            group.</note>
         
         <p>If the <codeph>--group-name</codeph> option is not specified with the <codeph>server-add</codeph>
            command, the server is added to the default
         group.</p>
         
         <codeblock>
couchbase-cli server-add -c 192.168.0.1:8091
   --server-add=192.168.0.2:8091
   --server-add-username=Administrator
   --server-add-password=password
   --group-name=groupName
</codeblock></section>
      
      
      <section><title>Example: Moving servers from server groups</title>
         
         <p>In the following example, two
            servers are moved from one server group to another using the
               <codeph>group-manage</codeph>
         command.</p>
         
         <codeblock>
couchbase-cli group-manage -c 192.168.0.1:8091 
   -u myAdminName
   -p myAdminPassword
   --from-group=myFirstGroup
   --to-group=mySecondGroup
   --move-servers="10.1.1.1:8091;10.1.1.2:8091"
</codeblock>
      </section>
   </refbody>
</reference>
