<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbstats-key">
	<title>Key and vkey</title>
	<shortdesc>The <codeph>cbstats key</codeph> and  <codeph>cbstats vkey</codeph> commands provide
		information on keys.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		
		<section><title>Description</title>
			<p>The following key information is available.</p>
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="3">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<colspec colname="col3"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Stat</entry>
						<entry>Description</entry>
						<entry>K/V</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>key_cas</entry>
						<entry>The keys current cas value</entry>
						<entry>KV</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>key_data_age</entry>
						<entry>How long the key has waited for its</entry>
						<entry>KV</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry/>
						<entry>value to be persisted (0 if clean)</entry>
						<entry>KV</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>key_exptime</entry>
						<entry>Expiration time from the epoch</entry>
						<entry>KV</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>key_flags</entry>
						<entry>Flags for this key</entry>
						<entry>KV</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>key_is_dirty</entry>
						<entry>If the value is not yet persisted</entry>
						<entry>KV</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>key_valid</entry>
						<entry>See description below</entry>
						<entry>V</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>key_vb_state</entry>
						<entry>The vbucket state of this key</entry>
						<entry>KV</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		<p><codeph>key_valid</codeph>= can have the following responses:</p>
		<ul>
			<li>this_is_a_bug - Some case we didn’t take care of.</li>
			<li>dirty - The value in memory has not been persisted yet.</li>
			<li>length_mismatch - The key length in memory doesn’t match the length on
				disk.</li>
			<li>data_mismatch - The data in memory doesn’t match the data on disk.</li>
			<li>flags_mismatch - The flags in memory don’t match the flags on disk.</li>
			<li>valid - The key is both on disk and in memory</li>
			<li>ram_but_not_disk - The value doesn’t exist yet on disk.</li>
			<li>item_deleted - The item has been deleted.</li>
		</ul>
			
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>Request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>cbstats [hostname]:11210 key [keyname] [vbid]
cbstats [hostname]:11210 vkey [keyname] [vbid]
			</codeblock>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
			<p>Example request:</p>
			<codeblock>cbstats 10.5.2.54:11210 key foo 115</codeblock>
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Response</title>
			<p>Example response for key foo:</p>
			<codeblock>
 key_cas: 41206791218746
 key_exptime: 0
 key_flags: 0
 key_is_dirty: 0 
			</codeblock>
		</section>
	</refbody>
</reference>
