<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="cbstats-checkpoint">
	
	<title>Checkpoint</title>
	<shortdesc>Checkpoint stats provide detailed information on per-vbucket checkpoint
		data structure.</shortdesc>
	<refbody>
		<section><title>Description</title>


		<p>Like Hash stats, requesting these stats has some impact on performance. Therefore, do not poll
				them from the server frequently.</p>
			
			<p>The following are command options:</p>
			
			<table>
				<tgroup cols="2">
					<thead>
						<row>
							<entry>Options</entry>
							<entry>Description</entry>
						</row>
					</thead>
					<tbody>
						<row>
							<entry>-h, --help</entry>
							<entry>Shows the help message and exits.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-a</entry>
							<entry>Iterates over all the vBuckets. Requires administrator username and password.</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-b [bucket-name]</entry>
							<entry>The vBucket to get the status from. Default: default</entry>
						</row>
						<row>
							<entry>-p [password]</entry>
							<entry>The password for the vBucket if one exists.</entry>
						</row>
					</tbody>
				</tgroup>
			</table>
			
			
	<table>
		<title>cbstats checkpoint values</title>
		<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1"/><colspec colname="col2"/><thead><row>
	<entry>Stat</entry>
	<entry>Description</entry>
</row></thead><tbody><row>
	<entry>cursor_name:cursor_checkpoint_id</entry>
	<entry>Checkpoint ID at which the cursor is</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry/>
	<entry>name ‘cursor_name’ is pointing now</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>open_checkpoint_id</entry>
	<entry>ID of the current open checkpoint</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>num_tap_cursors</entry>
	<entry>Number of referencing TAP cursors</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>num_checkpoint_items</entry>
	<entry>Number of total items in a checkpoint</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry/>
	<entry>data structure</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>num_open_checkpoint_items</entry>
	<entry>Number of items in the open checkpoint</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>num_checkpoints</entry>
	<entry>Number of checkpoints in a checkpoint</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry/>
	<entry>data structure</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>num_items_for_persistence</entry>
	<entry>Number of items remaining for persistence</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>checkpoint_extension</entry>
	<entry>True if the open checkpoint is in the</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry/>
	<entry>extension mode</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>state</entry>
	<entry>The state of the vbucket this checkpoint</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry/>
	<entry>contains data for</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>last_closed_checkpoint_id</entry>
	<entry>The last closed checkpoint number</entry>
</row><row>
	<entry>persisted_checkpoint_id</entry>
	<entry>The last persisted checkpoint number</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
		
		</tgroup>
	</table>
			
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Syntax</title>
			<p>Request syntax:</p>
			<codeblock>
cbstats [host]:11210 checkpoint
			</codeblock>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Example</title>
		<p>Request example:</p>
			<codeblock>
cbstats 10.5.2.117:11210 checkpoint
			</codeblock>
		</section>
		
		<section><title>Response</title>
			<p>Response example:</p>
			<codeblock>
 vb_0:last_closed_checkpoint_id:    1
 vb_0:num_checkpoint_items:         1
 vb_0:num_checkpoints:              1
 vb_0:num_items_for_persistence:    0
 vb_0:num_open_checkpoint_items:    0
 vb_0:num_tap_cursors:              0
 vb_0:open_checkpoint_id:           2
 vb_0:persisted_checkpoint_id:      1
 vb_0:state:                        active
 ...
 vb_9:last_closed_checkpoint_id:    1
 vb_9:num_checkpoint_items:         1
 vb_9:num_checkpoints:              1
 vb_9:num_items_for_persistence:    0
 vb_9:num_open_checkpoint_items:    0
 vb_9:num_tap_cursors:              0
 vb_9:open_checkpoint_id:           2
 vb_9:persisted_checkpoint_id:      1
 vb_9:state:                        active
			</codeblock>
		</section>
	</refbody>




</reference>
