<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic1711">
	<title>Data file location</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase Server stores data files (database and indices) under <menucascade>
			<uicontrol>var</uicontrol>
			<uicontrol>lib</uicontrol>
			<uicontrol>couchbase </uicontrol>
			<uicontrol>data</uicontrol>
		</menucascade>. </shortdesc>
	<body>
		<p>The disk path for the database and index files is set during the initial setup of the server
			node. The default disk path is typically used for development purposes only. If the
			server node is used for production, configure a different disk path. </p>
		
		
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
				<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2.77*"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Platform</entry>
						<entry>Default directory</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>Linux</entry>
						<entry><filepath>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data</filepath></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Windows</entry>
						<entry><filepath>C:\Program Files\couchbase\server\var\lib\couchbase\data</filepath></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Mac OS X</entry>
						<entry><filepath>~/Library/Application Support/Couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/data</filepath></entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		
		<note type="important">Do not store arbitrary data in the data path, and especially not the Couchbase Server backups.  
			Such data will be deleted by Couchbase Server under certain conditions.</note>
		
		<section><title>Changing the data file path</title>The disk path where the data and index files
			are stored cannot be changed on a running server. To change the disk path, the node must
			be removed from the cluster, configured with the new path, and added back to the
			cluster. The data file path can be changed for each node with the Couchbase Web Console
			during setup, with REST API, or CLI. Once a node or a cluster has already been set up
			and is storing data, the path cannot be changed while the node is a part of a running
			cluster. <p>The quickest and easiest method is to provision a new node with the
				configured correct disk path, and then use swap rebalance to add the new node in
				while taking the old node out. This ensures that the cluster performance is not
				impacted.  </p><p>To change the disk path by replacing a node (with swap
				rebalance):</p><ol>
				<li>Set up a new node with a different disk path.</li>
				<li>Swap rebalance the new node for the existing node.</li>
				<li>Repeat the process for each node in the cluster.</li>
			</ol><p>To change the disk path of an existing node (without swap rebalance): </p><ol>
				<li>Remove the node from the cluster and rebalance.</li>
				<li>Change the path on the running node either via the REST API or using the
					Couchbase CLI. </li>
				<li>Re-add the node back to the cluster and rebalance.</li>
			</ol> To change the disk path on multiple nodes, swap out each node and change the disk
			path individually. <note type="important">Changing the data path for a node that is
				already a part of a cluster permanently deletes the stored data.</note>
			<note type="tip">When using CLI, the data file and index file path settings cannot be
				changed individually. To change the setting individually, use the REST API.</note>
		</section>
		
			
		<example><title>CLI example</title>
		<codeblock>
couchbase-cli node-init -c 10.5.2.54:8091 \
	--node-init-data-path=new_path \
	-u user -p password
		</codeblock>
		</example>
		
	
		
	</body>
	<related-links>
		<linklist>
			<link href="../Tasks/rebalance-adding-nodes.dita"/>
			<link href="../REST/rest-cluster-removenode.dita"></link>
			<link href="../Tasks/tasks-rebalance.dita"/>
			<link href="../Tasks/rebalance-swap-rebalance.dita"/>
			<link href="../REST/rest-node-index-path.dita"/>
			<link href="../REST/overview-rest-api.dita"></link>
			<link href="../REST/rest-server-nodes.dita"></link>
		</linklist>
	</related-links>
</topic>
