<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="topic4685">
	<title>Logs and logging</title>
	<shortdesc>Couchbase Server creates a number of different log files depending on the component of
		the system that produce the error, and the level and severity of the problem being
		reported.</shortdesc>
	<body>

		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>Platform</entry>
						<entry>Location</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry>Linux</entry>
						<entry><codeph>/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/logs</codeph></entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Windows</entry>
						<entry><codeph>C:\Program
								Files\Couchbase\Server\var\lib\couchbase\logs</codeph> Assumes
							default installation location</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry>Mac OS X</entry>
						<entry><codeph>/Users/couchbase/Library/Application
								Support/Couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/logs </codeph>
						</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		<p>Individual log files are automatically numbered, with the number suffix incremented for
			each new log, with a maximum of 20 files per log. Individual log file sizes are limited
			to 10MB by default.</p>
		
		<table>
			<tgroup cols="2">
				<colspec colname="col1"/>
				<colspec colname="col2"/>
				<thead>
					<row>
						<entry>File</entry>
						<entry>Log Contents</entry>
					</row>
				</thead>
				<tbody>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>couchdb</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Errors relating to the couchdb subsystem that supports views, indexes
							and related REST API issues</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>debug</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Debug level error messages related to the core server management
							subsystem, excluding information included in the
								<codeph>couchdb</codeph>, <codeph>xdcr</codeph> and
								<codeph>stats</codeph> logs.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>info</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Information level error messages related to the core server
							management subsystem, excluding information included in the
								<codeph>couchdb</codeph>, <codeph>xdcr</codeph> and
								<codeph>stats</codeph> logs.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>http_access.log</codeph></entry>
						<entry>The admin access log records server requests (including admin logins) 
							coming through the REST or Couchbase web console. 
							It is output in common log format and contains several important fields such as remote client IP, 
							timestamp, GET/POST request and resource requested, HTTP status code, and so on.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>error</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Error level messages for all subsystems excluding
								<codeph>xdcr</codeph>.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>xcdr_error</codeph></entry>
						<entry>XDCR error messages.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>xdcr</codeph></entry>
						<entry>XDCR information messages.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>mapreduce_errors</codeph></entry>
						<entry>JavaScript and other view-processing errors are reported in this
							file.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>views</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Errors relating to the integration between the view system and the
							core server subsystem.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>stats</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Contains periodic reports of the core statistics.</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>memcached.log</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Contains information relating to the core memcache component,
							including vBucket and replica and rebalance data streams requests.
						</entry>
					</row>
					<row>
						<entry><codeph>reports.log</codeph></entry>
						<entry>Contains only progress report and crash reports for the Erlang process.
						</entry>
					</row>
				</tbody>
			</tgroup>
		</table>
		<p>Each log file group will also include a <codeph>.idx</codeph> and <codeph>.siz</codeph>
			file which holds meta information about the log file group. These files are
			automatically updated by the logging system.</p>
		
		
		<section><title>Changing log file location</title>
			<p>The default file log location is
				/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/logs, however, if you want to change the default
				log location to a different directory, change the log file configuration option.
				</p><p>Note</p><p>To implement a log file location change (from the default), you
				must be log in as either root or sudo and the Couchbase service must be
				restarted.</p><p>To change the log file configuration:</p><ol>
				<li>Log in as root or sudo and navigate to the directory where you installed
					Couchbase. For example:
						<codeph>/opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</codeph></li>
				<li>Edit the static_config file and change the <codeph>error_logger_mf_dir</codeph>
					variable to a different directory. For example: <codeph>{error_logger_mf_dir,
						"/home/user/cb/opt/couchbase/var/lib/couchbase/logs"}</codeph></li>
				<li>Restart the Couchbase service. After restarting the Couchbase service, all
					subsequent logs will be in the new directory.</li>
			</ol></section>
		
		
		<section><title>Changing logging levels</title>
			
			<p>The default logging level for all log
				files are set to debug except for couchdb, which is set to info. If you want to
				change the default logging level, modify the logging level configuration options.
				</p><p>The configuration change can be performed in one of the following ways:</p><ul>
				<li>persistent</li>
				<li>dynamic (on the fly, without restarting).</li>
			</ul></section>
		
		
		<section><title>Changing logging levels to be persistent</title>
			<p>Logging
					levels can be changed so that the changes are persistent, that is, the changes
					continue to be implemented should a Couchbase Server reboot
					occur.</p>
			
			<note type="note">To implement logging level changes, the Couchbase
					service must be restarted.</note>
			
			<p>To change logging levels to be persistent:</p>
			
			<ol>
					<li>Log in as root or sudo and navigate to the directory where you installed
						Couchbase. For example:
							<codeph>/opt/couchbase/etc/couchbase/static_config</codeph></li>
					<li>Edit the <b>static_config</b> file and change the desired log component. For
						example, parameters with the <codeph>loglevel_</codeph> prefix set the
						logging level.</li>
					<li>Restart the Couchbase service.</li>
				</ol>
			
			<p>After restarting the Couchbase service, logging levels for that component
					will be changed.</p></section>
		
		
		<section><title>Changing logging levels dynamically</title>
			
			<p>If logging
					levels are changed dynamically and if a Couchbase server reboot occurs, then the
					changed logging levels revert to the default. </p><p>To change logging levels
					dynamically, execute a curl POST command using the following syntax:</p>
			
			<codeblock>
curl -X POST -u adminName:adminPassword
  HOST:PORT/diag/eval 
  –d ‘ale:set_loglevel(&lt;log_component&gt;,&lt;logging_level&gt;).’
</codeblock>
					
						<p>Where:</p>
					<dl>
					<dlentry>
						<dt>Log_component</dt>
						<dd>The default log level (except <codeph>couchdb</codeph>) is <codeph>debug</codeph>; for
						example <codeph>ns_server</codeph>. The available loggers are
							<codeph>ns_server</codeph>, <codeph>couchdb</codeph>,
							<codeph>user</codeph>, <codeph>Menelaus</codeph>,
							<codeph>ns_doctor</codeph>, <codeph>stats</codeph>,
							<codeph>rebalance</codeph>, <codeph>cluster</codeph>, views,
							<codeph>mapreduce_errors</codeph> , xdcr and
							<codeph>error_logger.</codeph></dd>
					</dlentry>


					<dlentry>
						<dt>Logging_level</dt>
						<dd>The available log levels are <codeph>debug</codeph>, <codeph>info</codeph>,
							<codeph>warning</codeph>, and <codeph>error</codeph>.</dd>
					</dlentry>
					</dl>
		</section>

				<example>
			<codeblock>
curl -X POST -u Administrator:password 
	http://127.0.0.1:8091/diag/eval 
	-d 'ale:set_loglevel(ns_server,error).
</codeblock></example>
		
	</body>
</topic>
